idea: add funny texture to background !!
rename creature data to creaturesettings right right. VVV

stuff i still wanan do:
add funny thing in the background
rename creatures to settings
and make like 10 billion builds again



keep in mind that for equilbrium, your protypes rest in fantasy landscapes yo.
VV i wanan look at the ref stuff because that might not be needed everywhere right.
and then i wanna fix enums and then i wanna make builds again
i also kinda wanna give creature a direct ref to movement a direct reference to something lowkey.
    For some reason this reduces the framerate like ??

je kan morgne schrivjen over hoe je het vond gaan om 1 uur locked in te scrijven / onderzoke te doen.
tldr: het duurt lang en het is nutteloos. hard skills RULE !!.

ik moet nog voor de reflectie de pmi doen, en ik meot de laatste stap doen dat ik dit actually ga
toepassen.

NOTE TO SELF: als je klaar bent met de actual coding van het projet dat moet je voor both the ithc
and de itch and the windows shit maken. 

NOTE: je kan nog steeds desk or otherwise research doen voor outer wilds gewoon voor de funny right
ja dat is fire. ik denk dat ik pas weet voor wie de game is nadat ik het heb gemaakt like.

je kan ovlgende keer de screenshoten toevoegen en like all that jazz,
je hebt al de small tweaks gemaakt. je kan morgen dan weer builden. en like alle vibey changes maken.
try to make the creature as performant as possible is the goal here basically.
je kan nu gewoon meer shit toevoegen ofzo like idk.

stuff you can do:
project on tv screen
Gameplay video maken
meer werken aan pmi perchance?
build.

===

stuff still to do for
outer wilds:
playtest printen, herontwerp beschrijven, meer werken aan implementatie playtest
shit printen, itch.io maken et c etc etc, video maken, build maken en die uploaden, presi uploaden, oefenen etc etc.
pmi shit afronden, shit op ithc.io zettne, eindscherm eindscherm tekeken.

nu: you won screen final, fix town color introdctions name

for next:
fix water
make you win screen.

    /// <summary>
    /// Note: use interfaces for beter performance prolly.
    /// 
    /// Improvements:
    /// interfaces 
    /// proper object pooling system ish
    /// maybe working with spawner is a little more intuative but its fine.
    /// 
    /// Tally update is a little better.
    /// 
    /// 
    /// YOU COULd perchance implemenet something which limits the vertical speed of the thing.
    /// </summary>

i wanan add somethinh that makes the cursor less anoyying to mess with.

it could be a smart idea to assign the player to the blue color
for example and since the color is random then they will still have
the same winning odds. or they are , give them the choice to pick a cololr

i would like to pivot away from nuke and moer towards FPS
and add more shit basically. but the idea is there, it also needs more tutorial.

NOTE: the nuke effect doesnt work becausei  disabled it for lag reasons.

these are the things i wanna add next:
refacot naming better button to onselect and ondeselect
and add interactable bool
custom cursor and keep track of state.
i want to add a "clean slate" button.
and i maybe want the ice map to play a bit differently. i mgiht also increase the hyperspeed.

i shoud prolly pivot the system away from having not-full crunch memes.
and then disable the "update while playing" shader thing.
also, what would happen if i removed the clamp from the color thing ? would that break everything LOL??

het is belangrijk dat je het spel kan winnen, daarom is gewoon enviroment simulation game niet
de vibe, ik vind het concept van dat je een silly guy bent wel sick opzich.

custom cursor --> with like mountain and water and rotate cam memes.
spawner via interfaces --> not really all that improtant / later time VVV
background music  --> but then  icant listen to shit anymore.
150x150 VVV
findobjectsoftype<INTERFACE> --> XX literally doesnt work, you would need to get al monos and then one by one check them.
smarter terraform --> XX ish ??
remove tree LODS // --> i cant make this work ffs.

note the shadows are off, and the white trees dont have correct offset.

#E7AC97
#97B2E7

why does creatyurehandelr take the reference from spawner? dont make sense. VVV
make more prototypes
logboek target audience.
fix titles V

ideally, we would want to have it so that there are differernt scritps for titelhandler and the 
response to events and what ttitles then, so the terrainbuilder doesnt worry about raising those events yaknow.

random idea: interface with action or unity event in it.

3 prototyes:
 - this one
 - fps your are creature
 - drop a nuke simulator ?? wtf ??

 i fukcing hate these prototypes and i dont want to make them but im kinda
 running out of shit to do here.

 rename creatuer speedwrite for drag lore.
 or just about making the whole thing make more sense in geenral.
 dragWriter more like.

 Can you improve creature code some more ??

===

tomorrow (28) or after i wanna:

look at terraforming VV
make custom walls code VV
make the terravorming shit simpler VVV
remove undeeded crap or something, per chance move everything to new scene ( REPO !! )
make it so that for final game we dont have it that it updates every 1/10th, just in start and suhc.

yeah and all the other stuff too, dont forget the game management and concept video ...
and aslo dont forget the design patterns one.
since i did doulbe today i can skip tomorrow.

fix camera max angles should both be like -45 and 45 or 0 and 45 VV
je kan het ook maken dat je je eigen texture en custom gradient kan geven, dat is wel cool VV

...

i think i can pviot the proejct away from gradient full range and own texutre etc
it would have been smart if i did decorator with this but what can you dooo lol xd.

in the code that spawns the walls, also make it so that it could perchance spawn the plane.

todos:
make it so the terrain proper recalculates when terraform VVV
make that better --> i think better arhcitecutre ? maybe we shoulkd ahve some terrain management class that is the only one that holds terrain and such.
remove stuff from terrain thing ?? --> i dont wanna have stretch or textur2  VVV
it makes the code complicated but like maybe i need to make it more modular or rewrite everything,
its like i need to write a function that gets y value and then decorate that function or something ya feel 
me ?? literally like decorator.

i could make it so that dots for the creatures if the project goes too fast.

perchance fix the thing that makes it so you can have infinite depth and height
add code for trees.
add the walls code thing. VVV
add the cool buttons
keep working on the drafts for the concept video and actuall make the video too.
rename branch VV
add creature lore back in.

definalty for the creatures have a thing with the update rate.
use ur own fixedupdate lore with own interval.

add water --> plane on the bottom of the yeet. VVV
	now add better texture LOL. VV
	consider switching to perspective cam. VVV

watch that video about not perlin or erosion terrains.

add music.

it might be a funny mechanci to add it so that the creatures need water
but on the other hand thatsn ot very intuative.

make trees use the vertices and not mesh and then only recalculate collider when play press.
or only spawn the trees after play press to make game more visible ??

no you need collider update for the painting to work proper.

MAKE THE VIDEO TOMORROW  VVV
also make creatures now i think is next one, or music or buttons or time handler.
TREES
better ahrciteuctre with interfaces for this meme VV
with like one place where all verticies are stored and such XX --> no because that just doesnt work / not needed.

do a buncha merges again might be good.

===

implement scriptable object inhertience, i didnt even know that was fricking possible like ???
decorator esque where we dont have gold class closed for modication open for extension.

idk what i think about the decorations .. it can be nice looking but its a little bit hit or miss and also perfoamnce stuff.

i think i have given myself enough flexibility to go to creature coding now, hopefully with the same
level of solid coding ish

that serializeinterface is really really frickign useful

pretty good stuff

creaturemanager --> setup all creatures and keeps count or something
maybe make a universeal spawner class or something idk,
that just has spawn with defautls and a defuault prefab or something.

maybe add fog back in since LOD ???

its not fast to add the shit with that each decoration is referenced
in the terraformer so what im gonna do is just not do that right
yepppp, i think that makes total sense.

i would like it to be that we have a telematry for the creatures to see what they stats
are and to delete all and object pool and such.

i could maybe try to code arhcitecture it a bit better by making it
that be like "what should creature handler do??/"

next i wanna make it so that the spawning is based on the verticies because that makes sense.

note to self: you can make the raycast go through the shit of the terrain and then it might be easier.

je kan de skybox er per change weer in maken
next stuff: maak fricking creature spawn height equal to vertex
testen op laptop
maak creatures die actually de win criteria volgen

cool shit from this project:
inspector interface
max attribute
ISettable

i should prolly implement frickign object pooling for the creatures
and then have random placement in the setup meme.

note: there is lots of overlap between spawner and decoration handler, #Compostion !!!

composites to implement:
object pool for game objects --> #what even is a single responsiblity ??
decoration handler and creaturehandler share same SOMECOMPOSITE composite

if performance is an issue i could disable the meshcollider and then only process that when the game starts.

question: waarom tf heb die lifetime shit,
de bedoeling is dat er equalibruim is niet dont starve
simuliton. --> omdat je anders een peaks and valleys wereld kan maken.

ok so the nature of the species needs to be quite terrotorial because
otherwise its peace and love which is of course my goal
as a dev who makes the things but that needs to be the players problem to solve via the envrionment etc.


i need something to set all the terrain data as one thing,
i think i can do this easy via interface magic.

todo tomorrow:
make it so the speed up mechanic works VV

requirements for good creature code:
doesnt work flat terrain
works mid terrain
doesnt work extreme terrain

make a new repo and duplicate project
perchance make it so that the creatures cant scale walls and go around them
that would help i think. --> but it lowkey kinda works now already tho but like
i dont get how tho.


i would still like to be able to modulate the update rate of the velocity
change on the creatures but i think this should def be done in creaturehandler and
then we leverage our own shit or im just delulu idk. VVV

if i implementan an IReadable thing on the things that need terrain data that would
be nice.


you could add a decorator that moves the mesh up lolo.

===

i like it better that we now depend on interfaces instead of concretions
i think one point of improvement could be to segregate the iterrainable interface more
but the amount of time that would take to impliment is exponetnional
and really not required for what im trying to cook and on the other hand 
the "client" is using all the methods to the fullest so yeah.

maybe eventually fantasylandscapes van je yeet af yeeten?
also ik wil icey peaks biome in de yeet hebben main en shit etc.
ik denk dat dat een beetje de vibe is die ik morgen wil doen:
2 x hyperspeed
icey peaks biome toevoegen en werkt etc
betere UX flow in terms of --> --> --> wat de speler doet, stappen.
buttons en stuff, music maybe. lerp cam.
ik ben altijd open voor arhcitecture changes en open om daarin
te leren ook voor game patterns.